UNIX commands:
ls: list directory
 	will list all files and sub-directories in specified directory
 	pass with no argument to list contents of current directory
 	'ls -lh' is often helpful for seeing dates & file sizes

cd: change directory
 	allows you to move your working directory into sub-directories or parent directories (using ..)
 	can change multiple directories at once (e.g., cd ../../../system2/GROMACS/run2)

pwd: print working directory
 	will output your current working directory to the terminal

mv: move a file from one place to another (positional arguments)

cp: copy a file from one place to another (positional arguments)

nano: an in-terminal text editor, good for quick edits to scripts

ssh: secure shell
 	allows you to remotely access another computer or cluster through a secure connection

sftp: secure file transfer protocol
 	allows you to send and receive files from another computer/cluster securely
 	use 'get' and 'put' to get files from the remote server and to put files from the local host onto the server

rsync: remote sync
 	allows you to send and receive (sync) files between two computers, faster than sftp

The Tab key is very useful, it will autocomplete commands for you based on names of files/directories within your current directory.

Adding a '&' to the end of a command will tell Unix/bash to run the command in the background.



Understanding flags:
Unix commands will often need arguments for what they should act on. These arguments can be 'positional' arguments,
which means that there is a set order to how you pass the arguments. For instance, the Unix command 'cp' uses positional
arguments: the first argument is always the source and the second is always the destination. For instance, if I wanted to
copy the file 'topol.top' to the parent directory, I would type 'cp topol.top ../'

For simple commands, positional arguments are fine. But once you start having more complicated commands, it is better practice
to use "flags." Flags tell the code which specific arguments are where, so that the user doesn't have to remember the order of files.
Flags are specified with a '-' (typically one letter) or '--' (typically word). For instance, if I wrote a code that requires
a topology file, a pdb file, an input file, and an output file, I could write my code so that these three do the same exact thing:

 	command -t topol.top -p pdb.pdb -i input.input -o output.output
 	command -p pdb.pdb -i input.input -o output.output -t topol.top
 	command --topology topol.top --pdb pdb.pdb --input input.input --output output.output

Codes will generally always have one letter flags and only sometimes use whole word flags.

MD engines often use flags. For instance, the GPU accelerated AMBER engine pmemd will use a command like this:

 	pmemd.cuda -i input.mdin -p topol.prmtop -c input_coordinates.rst7 -o md_log.out -r output_coordinates.rst7 -x output_trajectory.nc

Code will typically reserve '-h' and '--help' to provide a dictionary of all possible flags.